# Yoruba Language word checker
English is the dominant language in this industry; an increasing number of individuals are using computers globally. In Nigeria, the English language has a strong hold, and computer use has been restricted to individuals with a basic understanding of the language. This has led in the rapid extinction of the country’s primary indigenous languages, particularly Yoruba. Because English has taken over their functions, the Yoruba language is becoming less popular among its people. The aim of this project is to develop a Yoruba spell checker that would detect and correct misspelled words. Data collection, model designing for the spell checker, implementation of the model designed, and finally, testing the system are the methods carried out in the development of this project.
A Yoruba spell checker is a computer program that makes use of a logically organized Yoruba words that forms a dictionary, and it detects and often corrects misspelled words in a text document.
Yoruba is a Nigeria language,  most prominently in South-western Nigeria. The number of Yoruba speakers is stated as roughly 50 million. The native tongue of the Yoruba people is spoken among other languages in Nigeria, Benin, and Togo and in communities in other parts of Africa, Europe and the Americans. A variety of the language, Lucum, from “olukumi” is used as the liturgical language of the Sanitaria religion of Cuba, puer to Rico, Dominican Republic and the United States. It is most closely related to the Owo and Itsekiri language (spoken in the Niger - Delta) and igala spoken in central Nigeria. The Yoruba people originated from the western Nigeria and the places where the language is spoken are termed “ile Yoruba”, meaning the Yoruba land. (wikipedia) It was recently revealed that native languages such as Yoruba were no longer being taught and spoken by individuals, particularly at home, and that those who did speak it made several errors. The few persons who ever attempted to write in their own Yoruba language, made numerous errors. 
